## Improvements

- A new parameter, `version`, was added to the `seed` function options, which will control generator versioning.

```ts
await seed(db, schema, { version: 1 });
```

Generator versions will change within a single major version of drizzle-seed.

The new version of the generator will become available if the generator has been changed and the output of the new generator does not match the output of the old generator.

#### For example:

`LastNameGen` was changed, and new version, `V2`, of this generator became available.

Later, `FirstNameGen` was changed in the next minor version of drizzle-seed, making `V3` version of this generator available.

|                  |       `V1`       |      `V2`       |   `V3(latest)`   |
| :--------------: | :--------------: | :-------------: | :--------------: |
| **LastNameGen**  | `LastNameGenV1`  | `LastNameGenV2` |                  |
| **FirstNameGen** | `FirstNameGenV1` |                 | `FirstNameGenV3` |

If you omit version, latest version of generators(`V3`) will be used: `FirstNameGen` will use its `V3` version, and `LastNameGen` will use its `V2` version.

If you specify version of 2, `FirstNameGen` will use its `V1` version and `LastNameGen` will use its `V2` version.

If you specify version of 1, `FirstNameGen` will use its `V1` version and `LastNameGen` will use its `V1` version.

##

- added `fields` as new parameter in `interval` generator

`interval` generator generates intervals based on the following principle:

fields to the right of the last specified field are zeroed out, while fields to the left remain valid.

Thus, for example, there is no difference between the `year to month` fields and the `month` fields, because fields to the right of `month` (`day`, `hour`, `minute`, `second`) are zeroed out, while fields to the left (`year`) remain valid.

Example

```ts
import { pgTable, interval } from "drizzle-orm/pg-core";
import { drizzle } from "drizzle-orm/node-postgres";
import { seed } from "drizzle-seed";

const intervals = pgTable("intervals", {
  interval: interval(),
});

async function main() {
  const db = drizzle(process.env.DATABASE_URL!);

  await seed(db, { intervals }, { count: 1000 }).refine((funcs) => ({
    intervals: {
      columns: {
        interval: funcs.interval({
          fields: "day to hour",
        }),
      },
    },
  }));
}

main();
```

You can also specify fields in a table and seed them automatically.

```ts
import { pgTable, interval } from "drizzle-orm/pg-core";
import { drizzle } from "drizzle-orm/node-postgres";
import { seed } from "drizzle-seed";

const intervals = pgTable("intervals", {
  interval: interval({ fields: "day to hour" }),
});

async function main() {
  const db = drizzle(process.env.DATABASE_URL!);

  await seed(db, { intervals }, { count: 1000 });
}

main();
```

## Breaking changes

- Unique `interval` generator was changed, so `2` version of this generator become available. **The latest version is `2`.**

**Cause:**

**Bug in generator:**
Old version of generator could generate intervals like: `1 minute 60 second`, `2 minute 0 second` and treat them as different intervals.

However, after inserting the `1 minute 60 second` interval, PostgreSQL database will convert it to `2 minute 0 second`. As a result, subsequent insertion of the `2 minute 0 second` interval into a unique column will cause an error.

##

- Both non-unique and unique `string` generators were changed, making version `2` of these generators available. **The latest version is `2`.**

**Cause:**

**Generating strings based on text-like column length:**
Now (in version 2), the maximum length of a string depends on the length of the text column (e.g., `varchar(20)`).
