# Preview release for `drizzle-orm@0.32.0` and `drizzle-kit@0.23.0`

> It's not mandatory to upgrade both packages, but if you want to use the new features in both queries and migrations, you will need to upgrade both packages

## New Features

### 🎉 PostgreSQL Sequences

You can now specify sequences in Postgres within any schema you need and define all the available properties

##### **Example**

```ts
import { pgSchema, pgSequence } from "drizzle-orm/pg-core";

// No params specified
export const customSequence = pgSequence("name");

// Sequence with params
export const customSequence = pgSequence("name", {
      startWith: 100,
      maxValue: 10000,
      minValue: 100,
      cycle: true,
      cache: 10,
      increment: 2
});

// Sequence in custom schema
export const customSchema = pgSchema('custom_schema');

export const customSequence = customSchema.sequence("name");
```

### 🎉 PostgreSQL Identity Columns

[Source](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Don%27t_Do_This#Don.27t_use_serial): As mentioned, the `serial` type in Postgres is outdated and should be deprecated. Ideally, you should not use it. `Identity columns` are the recommended way to specify sequences in your schema, which is why we are introducing the `identity columns` feature

##### **Example**

```ts
import { pgTable, integer, text } from 'drizzle-orm/pg-core' 

export const ingredients = pgTable("ingredients", {
  id: integer("id").primaryKey().generatedAlwaysAsIdentity({ startWith: 1000 }),
  name: text("name").notNull(),
  description: text("description"),
});
```

You can specify all properties available for sequences in the `.generatedAlwaysAsIdentity()` function. Additionally, you can specify custom names for these sequences

PostgreSQL docs [reference](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createtable.html#SQL-CREATETABLE-PARMS-GENERATED-IDENTITY).

### 🎉 PostgreSQL Generated Columns

You can now specify generated columns on any column supported by PostgreSQL to use with generated columns

##### **Example** with generated column for `tsvector`

> Note: we will add `tsVector` column type before latest release

```ts
import { SQL, sql } from "drizzle-orm";
import { customType, index, integer, pgTable, text } from "drizzle-orm/pg-core";

const tsVector = customType<{ data: string }>({
  dataType() {
    return "tsvector";
  },
});

export const test = pgTable(
  "test",
  {
    id: integer("id").primaryKey().generatedAlwaysAsIdentity(),
    content: text("content"),
    contentSearch: tsVector("content_search", {
      dimensions: 3,
    }).generatedAlwaysAs(
      (): SQL => sql`to_tsvector('english', ${test.content})`
    ),
  },
  (t) => ({
    idx: index("idx_content_search").using("gin", t.contentSearch),
  })
);
```

In case you don't need to reference any columns from your table, you can use just `sql` template or a `string`

```ts
export const users = pgTable("users", {
  id: integer("id"),
  name: text("name"),
  generatedName: text("gen_name").generatedAlwaysAs(sql`hello world!`),
  generatedName1: text("gen_name1").generatedAlwaysAs("hello world!"),
}),
```

### 🎉 MySQL Generated Columns

You can now specify generated columns on any column supported by MySQL to use with generated columns

You can specify both `stored` and `virtual` options, for more info you can check [MySQL docs](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.4/en/create-table-generated-columns.html)

Also MySQL has a few limitation for such columns usage, which is described [here](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.4/en/alter-table-generated-columns.html)

Drizzle Kit will also have limitations for `push` command:

1. You can't change the generated constraint expression and type using `push`. Drizzle-kit will ignore this change. To make it work, you would need to `drop the column`, `push`, and then `add a column with a new expression`. This was done due to the complex mapping from the database side, where the schema expression will be modified on the database side and, on introspection, we will get a different string. We can't be sure if you changed this expression or if it was changed and formatted by the database. As long as these are generated columns and `push` is mostly used for prototyping on a local database, it should be fast to `drop` and `create` generated columns. Since these columns are `generated`, all the data will be restored

2. `generate` should have no limitations

##### **Example**

```ts
export const users = mysqlTable("users", {
  id: int("id"),
  id2: int("id2"),
  name: text("name"),
  generatedName: text("gen_name").generatedAlwaysAs(
    (): SQL => sql`${schema2.users.name} || 'hello'`,
    { mode: "stored" }
  ),
  generatedName1: text("gen_name1").generatedAlwaysAs(
    (): SQL => sql`${schema2.users.name} || 'hello'`,
    { mode: "virtual" }
  ),
}),
```

In case you don't need to reference any columns from your table, you can use just `sql` template or a `string` in `.generatedAlwaysAs()`

### 🎉 SQLite Generated Columns

You can now specify generated columns on any column supported by SQLite to use with generated columns

You can specify both `stored` and `virtual` options, for more info you can check [SQLite docs](https://www.sqlite.org/gencol.html)

Also SQLite has a few limitation for such columns usage, which is described [here](https://www.sqlite.org/gencol.html)

Drizzle Kit will also have limitations for `push` and `generate` command:

1. You can't change the generated constraint expression with the stored type in an existing table. You would need to delete this table and create it again. This is due to SQLite limitations for such actions. We will handle this case in future releases (it will involve the creation of a new table with data migration).

2. You can't add a `stored` generated expression to an existing column for the same reason as above. However, you can add a `virtual` expression to an existing column.

3. You can't change a `stored` generated expression in an existing column for the same reason as above. However, you can change a `virtual` expression.

4. You can't change the generated constraint type from `virtual` to `stored` for the same reason as above. However, you can change from `stored` to `virtual`.

## New Drizzle Kit features

### 🎉 Migrations support for all the new orm features

PostgreSQL sequences, identity columns and generated columns for all dialects

### 🎉 New flag `--force` for `drizzle-kit push`

You can auto-accept all data-loss statements using the push command. It's only available in CLI parameters. Make sure you always use it if you are fine with running data-loss statements on your database

### 🎉 New `migrations` flag `prefix`

You can now customize migration file prefixes to make the format suitable for your migration tools:

- `index` is the default type and will result in `0001_name.sql` file names;
- `supabase` and `timestamp` are equal and will result in `20240627123900_name.sql` file names;
- `unix` will result in unix seconds prefixes `1719481298_name.sql` file names;
- `none` will omit the prefix completely;


##### **Example**: Supabase migrations format
```ts
import { defineConfig } from "drizzle-kit";

export default defineConfig({
  dialect: "postgresql",
  migrations: {
    prefix: 'supabase'
  }
});

```
